.TH PURPLED 8 LOCAL

.SH NAME

purpled - a libpurple daemon.

.SH SYNOPSIS

.B purpled
.I
[-d] [-pPORT] [-lLISTEN_IP]



.SH AVAILABILITY

All UNIX flavors

.SH DESCRIPTION

purpled is a libpurple daemon, aimed to provide instant-messaging services to external applications

.SH OPTIONS

.TP 5

.B -d

run purpled a unix daemon

.TP

.B -pPORT
specify on which TCP port purpled listen.

.br

Default: 32000

.TP

.B -lLISTEN_IP
specify on which IP address purpled listen.

.br

Default: any 0.0.0.0

.TP

.B -h
display usage and exit.

.SH EXAMPLES

purpled, listen on port 4242 and stay in the terminal.

.HP

$ purpled -p4242

purpled, listen on IP address 127.0.0.1 and start as a deamon.

.HP

$ purpled -l127.0.0.1 -d

.SH COMMANDS

All commands are separated by LF. It is OK to separate them with CRLF,
in which case CR will be striped.

.TP 2

.B ver

Output current purpled and libpurple versions.

.TP

.B who

Returns the list of clients connected to the daemon

.TP

.B account

Multi-purpose command with several meanings. You can use
"acc" as an alias.

.TP

.B account add PROTOCOL USERNAME PASSWORD

Note: protocol name is specified like this: "msn", "icq", "xmpp".
Note: username must often include server address too!

.TP

.B account list

Lists all accounts and their states.

.TP

.B account ID

Multi-purpose command to perform an operation on an account.
ID either specifies index number from "account list" output,
either an alias assigned with "account ID set alias ALIAS"
command.
Note: if several accounts share an alias, one with the lowest
index number will be selected, and the others - neglected.

.TP

.B account ID set alias ALIAS

define an alias for the account which can be used instead of ID

.TP

.B account ID up

Go online.

.TP

.B account ID down

Go offline.

.TP

.B account ID disable.

Disable an account.

.TP

.B account ID enable.

Enable an account.

.TP

.B account ID set SETTING VALUE

Set an account setting.
Note: those settings have special values: "alias", "username", 
"password".
.br
Note: by setting alias you can refer to an account with it after-
wards.
.br
Note: "encoding" is a very popular setting.

.TP

.B account ID uset SETTING VALUE

Set an internal purpled setting to fine-tune account behaviour.
Current possible settings are:

(type) (name)             (default)
.br
bool   log_self           FALSE   write own messages for later collect.
.br
bool   add_buddy_on_send  TRUE    try to add buddy when messaging him.
.br
int    reconnect_timeout  0       reconnect in how many seconds on error. 0 to disable.

Note: both "set" and "uset" commands may vary as "set", "seti",
"setb", "uset", "useti", "usetb". -i variants are for integers,
-b are for booleans. Default setting type is string.
For boolean values use 1 or 0.

.TP

.B account ID delete

Permamently delete an account.

.TP

.B account ID send USERNAME MESSAGE

Sends Instant Message to specified user. 
Note: please provide sufficient username!

.TP

.B account ID check USERNAME

Output availible userinfo.

.TP

.B account ID forget USERNAME

Remove specified user from buddy list if it existed.

.TP

.B account ID join CHAT

Join chat.

.TP

.B account ID part CHAT

Leave chat.

.TP

.B account ID collect [TIME]

Gets conversation messages from account since the last time this 
command was issued by this connection.

Note: you can force TIME by providing it in a UNIX epoch, this is 
usefull for http connections, which are not persistent.



.SH AUTHOR

driedfruit, xcinnay

.SH SEE ALSO

finch(1), pidgin(1)
